it's hoped that one day even the
orphaned orangutangs raised in forest
school can make a similar journey but
loaners priority is to get adult
orangutangs like Mustafa out first he's
had minimal human contact so a better
chance of survival unfortunately with so
many wild orangutangs coming in the
forest school orangutangs are
continually bumped to the back of the
queue in fact right now it's hard to see
them ever reaching the front are you
being a little bit brain here now are
you look at this big guy
in a strange way these orangutangs are
lucky they were rescued from marginal
and rapidly shrinking patches of forest
where eventually they would have been
killed or starved to death but now
they're heading to one of the largest
areas of safe orangutan habitat left in
Borneo
[Music]
airlifting 25 orangutangs into one of
the remotest and most inaccessible
forests on earth is a logistical
nightmare for loner there are so many
people agencies and departments involved
and it only takes one link to fail for
the chain to break and send it back to
square one the release has already been
delayed by over two months and some of
these orangutangs have spent nearly a
year in a cage waiting for this flight
Lona is desperate to get them back out
quickly while they're still wild but
nothing can be left to chance especially
when you've got powerful orangutangs
like my stop o on a small plane we
haven't had anybody who's tried to
escape yet so it's not I'm not too
worried about it but because he is a
hormonal male and we're gonna be 15
minutes on that flight I really do not
want interested like breakout I mean him
escaping you know being in midair
I'm not quite sure the captain is gonna
appreciate that but these hormonal males
are just like almost impossible to
predict what they're gonna do